Blog post: analytics stack for vibe coders (#16901)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/best-analytics-stack-for-vibe-coded-apps.mdx

Reviewer: some backlinks to this article would be good too

Reviewer: I think all usages of "vibe coded" as an adjective should have a hyphen "vibe-coded", vibe coding and vibe coder are fine though.

---

> title: The best analytics tool stack for vibe coded apps

Reviewer: rhymes hehe

> title: The best analytics tool stack for vibe coded apps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: The best analytics tool stack for vibe-coded apps
```

date: 2026-05-19
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author:
    - natalia-amorim
featuredImage: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/hog_ql.png
featuredImageType: full
category: General
tags:
    - Comparisons
seo:
    metaTitle: 'The best analytics stack for vibe coded apps'
    metaDescription: 'The right analytics tools for vibe coded apps – product analytics, web analytics, and LLM observability. Compares PostHog, Plausible, Langfuse, and more.'
---

If you're vibe coding your way to a product, the temptation is to defer analytics until "later." Don't. There's no point in shipping fast if you don't learn fast, and you can't learn anything from metrics that aren't being tracked.

> The good news is that you don't need a data team to get started; you only need three things: **product analytics** (what users do in your app), **web analytics** (where they came from), and – if you're shipping AI features, which you probably are – **LLM observability** (how your model is actually behaving in production).

Reviewer: "The good news" is a bit cliche
```suggestion
You don't need a data team to get started; you only need three things: **product analytics** (what users do in your app), **web analytics** (where they came from), and – if you're shipping AI features, which you probably are – **LLM observability** (how your LLM is actually behaving in production).
```

This guide walks through all three, what to look for in each, and the best tools to use. 

<details>
<summary>What's a "vibe coded" app?</summary>

> The term was coined by Andrej Karpathy in early 2025 and refers to building software by describing what you want in plain language and letting AI write most of the code. By 2026, [92% of US developers use AI coding tools daily](https://www.hostinger.com/blog/vibe-coding-statistics) and [41% of all new code is AI-generated](https://www.taskade.com/blog/state-of-vibe-coding-2026). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vibe coding is building software by describing what you want in plain language and letting AI write most of the code. The term was coined by Andrej Karpathy in early 2025. By 2026, [92% of US developers use AI coding tools daily](https://www.hostinger.com/blog/vibe-coding-statistics) and [41% of all new code is AI-generated](https://www.taskade.com/blog/state-of-vibe-coding-2026). 
```

Vibe coded apps tend to share a few traits:

- **Built fast**, often by one person or a tiny team, using tools like Cursor, Claude Code, Lovable, v0, Bolt.new, Replit, or Windsurf

> - **Stacked on opinionated infrastructure** (Next.js + Vercel + Supabase for example)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Stacked on opinionated infrastructure** like Next.js + Vercel + Supabase for example
```

- **Often AI-native**, with at least one LLM call somewhere in the product
- **Built by people who don't necessarily have engineering or data infrastructure backgrounds** – [63% of vibe coding users are non-developers](https://www.taskade.com/blog/state-of-vibe-coding-2026)

This guide is written with that profile in mind: you want analytics that's quick to set up, doesn't require a tracking plan, scales as you grow, and doesn't break your bank before you have revenue.

</details>

<details>
<summary>Why do vibe coded apps need analytics at all?</summary>

Because vibe coding makes shipping cheap, but it doesn't [make decisions for you](/founders/product-market-fit-game). 

> You can prompt your way to ten features in a weekend, but only data tells you which one users actually care about. Without it, you're shipping into the oblivion – and as products get cheaper to build, the gap between "I have an MVP" and "I have a product people pay for" is more the product learning curve rather than coding speed.

Reviewer: I don't fully get "is more the product learning curve rather than coding speed." Is it more like product improvement curve?

> You can prompt your way to ten features in a weekend, but only data tells you which one users actually care about. Without it, you're shipping into the oblivion – and as products get cheaper to build, the gap between "I have an MVP" and "I have a product people pay for" is more the product learning curve rather than coding speed.

Reviewer: I think we can remove cliche here too
```suggestion
You can prompt your way to ten features in a weekend, but only data tells you which one users actually care about. As products get cheaper to build, the gap between "I have an MVP" and "I have a product people pay for" is more the product learning curve rather than coding speed.
```

Analytics is also how you catch the failure modes vibe coding introduces; watching real session replays and tracking real errors is how you find the bugs your AI agent confidently shipped.

</details>

## Layer 1: Product analytics

### What is product analytics?

**Product analytics** is [event-based tracking](/docs/product-analytics/capture-events) that measures what users do *inside* your app: every click, feature use, form submission, signup, and conversion. It's how you answer questions like:

- Are people getting through onboarding?
- Which features are people using? Which ones are dead weight?
- Of the users who signed up last week, how many came back?
- Do users from X channel behave differently than users from Y?

> If you're vibe coding, this is the layer you most can't skip. You'll be shipping features faster than you can think, and product analytics is the only way to tell which ones are working.

Reviewer: awk
```suggestion
If you're vibe coding, this is the layer you can't skip. You'll be shipping features faster than you can think, and product analytics is the only way to tell which ones are working.
```

### When should vibe coders set up product analytics?

Day one, or as close to day one as possible. 

[Autocapture](/docs/product-analytics/autocapture) – where the tool records every click and pageview without you defining events upfront – is your best friend. Drop a snippet in your `<head>` tag (or have your AI agent do it for you), and you're collecting data while you keep shipping. You can define meaningful events later, retroactively, once you know what to look for.

The other reason to set up early: [activation metrics](/product-engineers/activation-metrics) need historical data. You can't tell which actions predict [retention](/docs/product-analytics/retention) if you don't have a few weeks of behavior to look at.

### Best product analytics tools for vibe coded apps

> 1. **PostHog**

Reviewer: Should we use h4 here?

> [PostHog](/) bundles product analytics with [web analytics](/web-analytics), [session replay](/session-replay), [feature flags](/feature-flags), [A/B testing](/experiments), [surveys](/surveys), [error tracking](/error-tracking), [LLM observability](/llm-analytics), and more – which means it covers all layers of this guide on its own. The free tier includes 1M events per month, and over 90% of users pay $0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[PostHog](/) bundles [product analytics](/product-analytics] with [web analytics](/web-analytics), [session replay](/session-replay), [feature flags](/feature-flags), [A/B testing](/experiments), [surveys](/surveys), [error tracking](/error-tracking), [LLM observability](/llm-analytics), and more – which means it covers all layers of this guide on its own. The free tier includes 1M events per month, and over 90% of users pay $0.
```

For vibe coders specifically, three things stand out:

- **[The PostHog wizard](/wizard)** detects your framework and installs the right SDK with one terminal command, so you can literally have your AI agent set it up for you.

<WizardCTA />

- **[Autocapture](/docs/product-analytics/autocapture)** means no tracking plan needed.

> - **[An MCP server](/docs/model-context-protocol)** lets you pipe your PostHog data into Claude Code, Cursor, or any other AI workflow, so you can ask "which feature drove the most retention this week?" in the same place you're writing code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **[The PostHog wizard](/wizard)** detects your framework and installs the right SDK with one terminal command, so you can basically vibe code a correct implementation.

<WizardCTA />

2. **[Autocapture](/docs/product-analytics/autocapture)** means no tracking plan needed.
3. **[An MCP server](/docs/model-context-protocol)** lets you pipe your PostHog data into Claude Code, Cursor, or any other AI workflow, so you can ask "which feature drove the most retention this week?" in the same place you're writing code.
```

Pricing is per-product and event-based, with [billing limits](/docs/billing/estimating-usage-costs) so you never get a surprise bill. 

> Early-stage startups can also apply for the [PostHog for Startups program](/startups) and get $50,000 in credits.

Reviewer: Long section
```suggestion
Pricing is per-product and event-based, with [billing limits](/docs/billing/estimating-usage-costs) so you never get a surprise bill. Early-stage startups can also apply for the [PostHog for Startups program](/startups) and get $50,000 in credits.
```

<details>
<summary>Using Product Analytics with the PostHog MCP</summary>

> Ask Claude Code or Cursor things like *"how many unique users signed up in the last 7 days, broken down by day?"* or *"what are the most common paths users take after signing up?"* and the agent will run the right [trends](/docs/product-analytics/trends), [funnel](/docs/product-analytics/funnels), or [paths](/docs/product-analytics/paths) query against your data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ask your MCP client things like *"how many unique users signed up in the last 7 days, broken down by day?"* or *"what are the most common paths users take after signing up?"* and the agent will run the right [trends](/docs/product-analytics/trends), [funnel](/docs/product-analytics/funnels), or [paths](/docs/product-analytics/paths) query against your data. 
```

If you're already running Google Ads and need the native integration, keep it. Otherwise, [most alternatives](/blog/ga4-alternatives) are better for understanding what's happening on your site.

> For a deeper dive, see our full comparison of [the best web analytics tools for developers](/blog/best-web-analytics-tools).

## Layer 3: LLM observability

### What is LLM observability?

**LLM observability** tracks what's happening inside the AI features of your app: prompts, responses, latency, token usage, cost per call, model performance, and quality of outputs. It's monitoring for the LLM-shaped parts of your stack that traditional APM tools weren't built for.

It answers questions like:

- How much am I actually spending on OpenAI/Anthropic/etc. per user?
- Which prompts are slow? Which ones are expensive?
- Is the model hallucinating in production? On which inputs?
- When I tweak a prompt, does quality go up or down?
- Are users actually using the AI feature I shipped?

### When should vibe coders set up LLM observability?

The first time you ship a feature that calls an LLM API. 

> AI features are uniquely good at sneakily costing you money – a single bug in a retry loop can burn through a daily budget overnight, and hallucinations look like working code until a user reports them. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AI features burn money quietly – a single bug in a retry loop can burn through a daily budget overnight, and hallucinations look like working code until a user reports them. 
```

You also want this in place before your launch traffic hits, not after. Debugging a flaky AI feature without traces is significantly harder than just having them from the start.

A few things to look for:

- **Cost and token tracking** per request, per user, per model
- **Trace visibility** for multi-step workflows (especially if you're building agents)
- **Evals** – being able to score outputs and catch regressions

> - **Low integration friction** – ideally something that works with raw API calls, not just LangChain

Reviewer: matching formatting
```suggestion
- **Evals** to score outputs and catch regressions
- **Low integration friction** so that it works with raw API calls, not just LangChain
```

### Best LLM observability tools for vibe coded apps

#### 1. PostHog

[PostHog's LLM observability](/llm-analytics) tracks cost, latency, token usage, model performance, and output quality alongside your product analytics. The advantage: you can correlate AI feature usage with retention and conversion in the same tool. 

> It also includes [evals](/docs/ai-engineering) (so you can score model outputs and catch regressions when you tweak a prompt) and [prompt management](/docs/ai-engineering) (versioning, A/B testing, and rollback for production prompts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It also includes [evals](/docs/llm-analytics/evaluations) (so you can score model outputs and catch regressions when you tweak a prompt) and [prompt management](/docs/llm-analytics/prompts) (versioning, A/B testing, and rollback for production prompts).
```

The free tier includes 100K LLM observability events/mo, and it works with OpenAI, Anthropic, and other major providers through a small SDK wrapper.

<details>
<summary>Using LLM Observability with the PostHog MCP</summary>

Ask your agent things like *"what are my total LLM costs by model over the last 30 days?"* or *"pull the trace for the slowest generation yesterday"* and get answers without leaving your editor. 

> You can also manage [evals](/docs/ai-engineering) (*"create an evaluation that scores responses for hallucination"*), spin up [prompts](/docs/ai-engineering) with versioning, and summarize traces to debug agent runs – useful when you're iterating on prompts and want fast feedback on what's actually shipping.

Reviewer: We just said and linked to this so can remove it
```suggestion
You can also manage evals (*"create an evaluation that scores responses for hallucination"*), spin up prompts with versioning, and summarize traces to debug agent runs – useful when you're iterating and want fast feedback on what's actually shipping.
```

[See the full list of available tools](/docs/model-context-protocol).

</details>

> #### 2. Helicone

Reviewer: Hmm, Helicone is going into maintnance mode so not worth including: https://www.helicone.ai/blog/joining-mintlify

Reviewer: Maybe Datadog (as sad as that is) as a replacement?

#### 4. LangSmith

LangSmith is built by the LangChain team and is the default if you're using LangChain or LangGraph. The agent debugging tools are solid if you live in that ecosystem.

The catch: seat-based pricing ($39/user/mo on Plus) plus trace-based usage, which can get expensive as your team or volume grows. If you're not using LangChain, the developer experience is noticeably worse than LangChain-native usage.

> For a deeper dive, see our comparison of [the best open source LLM observability tools](/blog/best-open-source-llm-observability-tools).

## Picking the right combination for your stage

Here's the short version, depending on where you are:

| Stage | Product analytics | Web analytics | LLM observability |
|---|---|---|---|
| **Weekend MVP** | PostHog (free) | PostHog (same tool) | PostHog (same tool) |
| **Pre-PMF, getting first users** | PostHog or Heap | PostHog, Plausible, or Fathom | PostHog or Helicone |
| **Post-PMF, optimizing** | PostHog, Mixpanel, or Amplitude | PostHog, Plausible, or Fathom | PostHog, Helicone, or Langfuse |
| **Scaling, multiple AI features** | PostHog or Amplitude | PostHog or Fathom | PostHog, Langfuse, or LangSmith |

> ## The case for going all-in on PostHog

Reviewer: nice

For vibe coded apps specifically, PostHog hits a sweet spot. You're moving fast, your stack is opinionated, you don't have time to wire up five SaaS products, and you probably have at least one AI feature. 

PostHog covers product analytics, web analytics, session replay, feature flags, experiments, surveys, error tracking, LLM observability, and more in one install, on one free tier. 

The [AI setup wizard](/wizard) gets you instrumented in a few minutes and [the MCP server](/docs/model-context-protocol) means you can query your data from Claude Code or Cursor while you're still building.

If you want to take it for a spin, you can [start free](/) – no credit card needed.

> And if you want your product to *self-heal* (aka pick up signals from errors, session replays, surveys, and product analytics and automatically turn them into actionable PRs), take a look at [PostHog Code](/code). 

Author: is it too early to bring up PHC in content, given it still waitlist only?

> And if you want your product to *self-heal* (aka pick up signals from errors, session replays, surveys, and product analytics and automatically turn them into actionable PRs), take a look at [PostHog Code](/code). 

Reviewer: might as well start the branding 
```suggestion
And if you want your product to *drive itself* (aka pick up signals from errors, session replays, surveys, and product analytics and automatically turn them into actionable PRs), take a look at [PostHog Code](/code). 
```

It's the next step beyond reactive analytics: instead of waiting for you to notice a bug or churn signal, it proactively spots them and opens a pull request to fix it.

> <WizardCTA />

Reviewer: Do we have a Code CTA? or maybe we put this above the PostHog Code callout?

## Frequently asked questions

<details>
<summary>Do I really need analytics if I'm just shipping a weekend project?</summary>

> If you genuinely don't care whether the project succeeds, no. But the moment you want to know "did anyone actually use this?" or "where did my signups come from?",  that's analytics. And it costs nothing to set up the free tier of [PostHog](/), Plausible's trial, or Helicone's free tier, so the bar to start is very low.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you genuinely don't care whether the project succeeds, no. But the moment you want to know "did anyone actually use this?" or "where did my signups come from?", that's analytics. And it costs nothing to set up the free tier of [PostHog](/), Plausible's trial, or Langfuse's free tier, so the bar to start is very low.
```

</details>

<details>
<summary>Can my AI agent set up analytics for me?</summary>

> Yes. The [PostHog wizard](/wizard) is built for exactly this – paste one terminal command into Cursor or Claude Code, and it'll detect your framework, install the right SDK, and configure tracking. 

Reviewer: nit: you don't really paste it into claude code or cursor, just the terminal is fine. claude code is another app that runs in the terminal. 
```suggestion
Yes. The [PostHog wizard](/wizard) is built for exactly this – paste and run one terminal command and it'll detect your framework, install the right SDK, and configure tracking. 
```

Most analytics tools also have clear docs that AI agents handle well.

</details>

<details>
<summary>I'm using Lovable / Bolt / Replit. Will these tools work?</summary>

> Yes. PostHog, Plausible, Fathom, and most product analytics tools work via a JavaScript snippet you paste into your site's `<head>` tag, which all major vibe coding platforms support. For LLM observability, Helicone works with a one-line base URL change, and PostHog's LLM observability has a small SDK wrapper around OpenAI and Anthropic clients.

Reviewer: might need a helicone update

> Yes. PostHog, Plausible, Fathom, and most product analytics tools work via a JavaScript snippet you paste into your site's `<head>` tag, which all major vibe coding platforms support. For LLM observability, Helicone works with a one-line base URL change, and PostHog's LLM observability has a small SDK wrapper around OpenAI and Anthropic clients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes. PostHog, Plausible, Fathom, and most product analytics tools work via a JavaScript snippet you paste into your site's `<head>` tag, which all major vibe coding platforms support. For LLM observability, Helicone works with a one-line base URL change, and PostHog's LLM observability has a small SDK wrapper around OpenAI, Anthropic, or other providers.
```

</details>

<details>
<summary>What's the difference between product analytics and web analytics?</summary>

Web analytics focuses on traffic and pages – who visited, where they came from, what they viewed. Product analytics focuses on behavior and users – what actions they took, how they activate, retain, or churn. Tools like PostHog combine both, so you can see how traffic turns into real product usage.

</details>

<details>
<summary>Do I need LLM observability if I'm just calling OpenAI a few times?</summary>

If you have a single LLM call in a simple flow, you can probably get away with logging requests yourself. But the second you have multiple prompts, retries, or any user-facing AI feature, you want observability for cost control alone. A buggy retry loop can drain a daily API budget faster than you can notice.

</details>

<details>
<summary>What about error tracking and session replay?</summary>

> For vibe coded apps, both are extremely useful – especially because AI-generated code [tends to look correct but isn't always reliable](https://www.hostinger.com/blog/vibe-coding-statistics). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For vibe coded apps, both are extremely useful – especially because AI-generated code tends to look correct but isn't always reliable. 
```
